Based on the values of the Blender project as a whole, the Human Interface
Guidelines team agrees on the following values.

**We believe...**

**... that Blender is about the people more than it is about the software**

Well engineered software may still fail to address real needs. Engineering
quality matters, but is not the end goal. The design culture shouldn't be
driven by technical opinions.
  
Design should focus on the people it is done for, their needs and the
environment they work in ([users, goals and context](../index.md#usability)!).
Standard practices from the field of Human Computer Interaction should be
applied to increase understanding of these (contextual inquiries, user story
mapping, usability testing, personas, etc.).

**... that good design answers the *why* first**

It is tempting to simply follow obvious solutions. And we face user requests
all the time: "Just add this button there, it's going to be so useful!". But
we should not look at design as a mere solution finding process. It's usually
worth understanding the "why is this needed?" first. If the underlying
situation is understood well, more appropriate design solutions can be found.

"_Don't Listen to Users_" [^1] is a phrase often regarded as first rule of
usability by user experience specialists. On its own a provocative statement,
but the point is that just listening is not sufficient and evidently, can lead
to troubling results. Watch users work. Ask questions. Understand what they try
to do. And yes, you should listen, but do so with care.  
Again, it's all about the user, the goals and the context.

**... that simplicity can make things more powerful**

Good design uses simplicitly well, without "dumbing down" the functionality.
The combination of simple tools can become more than the sum of their parts.  
More complex tools are nice to have -- often a must-have. But there should be
a simple design underneath them that is reliable and puts the user in full
control.

**... that design is *not* an "*either* novices *or* power users" choice**

In the minds of many people, usability is all about the beginner-friendliness,
or the learnability. Another popular opinion is that designs either work well
for beginners or professional users. Both these notions are false in our view.
  
Every user is different. Power users are not a homogenous mass with the views
and expectations. In fact, some power users may want more "typical beginner
stuff" and vise versa. The goals and contexts of humans change.

???+ example

    === "Render Beautiful Dragon"

        If all a user needs to do is render a beautiful dragon, a UI that only shows
        a big button saying "Render Beautiful Dragon" [^2] is perfectly usable - no
        matter the experience level of the user.

    === "Asset Management"

        A well designed asset management system, with a number of bundled
        high-quality assets, nice previews, and good structure, can benefit every
        user.

        A professional technical artist, without a doubt could use a good asset
        management system, designed for movie production use. But even to her, a
        simple built-in library of assets can be useful, when she just wants to
        quickly mock-up a shot for development.

        Production asset management and simple user asset libraries should work
        well together and are not "either for beginners or pros".
  
Surely, different user groups *do* have different priorities and needs. But
it's not a simple "either or" with a linear path from beginner to a power
user. It is a very organic process with many variables and dimensions.
  
We want to empower people to find their own workflows, rather than deciding
what makes a beginner and what makes a power user.

**... that openess makes us stronger**

Blender is created by, for and with the blender.org community. 

Design is often controversial. Everybody is affected by it and everybody has
an opinion. This can be incredibly difficult to deal with. Nevertheless,
openess is a core value of the Blender project, people should be able to see
us succeed -- or fail. We do not have customers which we need to be afraid of
losing; we can afford to be transparent.  
We have a community that loves being involved and we should embrace that. This
is a rather unique position to be in as a design team, with own challanges and
possibilities.
  
However, the Blender project is not a democracy, it is a meritocracy. It does
not serve the people and does not have to make everybody happy. The truth is,
we make Blender for ourselves, making things is our passion. But we are makers
who share -- and we want to be proud of our achievements. How could we be
proud of something that nobody but us can be enthusiastic about?
  

**... that Blender is professional software with freedom**
  
The Blender project seeks to make a free and open source software of high
quality available to the masses, especially to hobbyists and small studios.
It is not Blender's goal to become "the industry standard", or to merely be a
software for professionals. *However, that can be the means to an end*:  
Adoption by "the industry" is an indicator for the quality of the software,
and the success of the project as a whole.  
So while professionals are not the target audience of Blender, Blender should
be professional software. Design has to meet professional level expectations.
  
  **All we do must serve the _freedom to create_.**

[^1]: Jakob Nielsen; [First Rule of Usability? Don't listen to
users](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/first-rule-of-usability-dont-listen-to-users/)
[^2]: Based on an example by UX designer Duncan Macneil [in a Blender Guru
podcast](https://www.blenderguru.com/podcasts/podcast-interview-with-ux-software-designer-duncan-macneil)
 